In generally practicing Dharma, we need courage, commitment, joy, and loyalty. Loyalty means
"stay strong." That is the Onodoki teaching also said. For example, Garab Dogya's three words,
"word," "discovered in the nature." Second is "resolution," or "one resolution," or "one
decisiveness." That means not lingering, not jumping back and forth, all different things.
Stay with that. That's what the teacher said with teaching what he received. He got enlightenment.
And all the great masters, there is a time to linger. There is a time to search him.
But life is short. We cannot search him all the time. We have to settle.
Settle with the loyal. That is loyalty. Practice the meditate. That will bring the
realization. There is no one got enlightenment. No one achieved the Chichi, the Buddhahood,
by just receiving the teachings, looking at the teachings. Definitely, it has a big merit,
accumulation merit. It's a big merit, but you get realization. Once you receive the teaching,
once you settle yourself, when you have to, we have to give our heart, heart and the practice,
then the really performant realization comes. And then if we do that, we leave this world,
world with joy, with confidence, with some degree of our focus.
Otherwise, it's all lost, almost the same as we start.